[MUSIC PLAYING]
SURMA: So, 2018--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes.
SURMA: --almost starting.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes it is.
SURMA: And it's an entire year--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Oh.
SURMA: --if you
didn't know that.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: This time
around it's an entire year?
SURMA: Yeah.
And so, in a year, a lot
of things can happen.
And a lot of things will happen.
And some things will be
happening to the web.
And so I think it's interesting
to talk about the things that
are going to be happening to
the web in the year of 2018.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Let's do it.
SURMA: So I thought I'll try to
explain to you one thing in two
minutes.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: All right.
SURMA: I'm going to talk about
Async Iterators and Generators.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: OK.
Now, I'm aware of iterators.
I am aware of generators.
SURMA: Exactly.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: What
you've done there
put the word Async
in front of them,
and you're trying to pass
it off as a new thing.
SURMA: That's pretty much it.
I think we're done.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Oh,
excellent, brilliant.
SURMA: OK.
So, iterators are
a type that you
can use in for
loops, for example,
in for off loops, where
you have an iterator
and just get, like--
arrays have an iterator.
So you can iterate
all of the values.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: But you
can create an iterator,
which is infinite as well.
SURMA: For example, Yeah.
Then, you have generators,
which are the star functions
with the yield keyword,
where you can basically
construct an iterator on the
fly using a generator function.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Like a
sort of helper method
to create an iterator.
SURMA: Sometimes,
the problem was
you want it to not
only yield values,
but you want it
to yield promises.
And you want it to kind of know
that only the next value is
available once the
previous promise is
done resolving to something.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Right, OK.
SURMA: And that's
where they came up
with the concept of
Async iterators, which
are the same thing.
But instead of returning values,
they iterate over promises.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: OK.
So if I've, like,
fetched three things,
I have a promise for
each of those things.
An Async iterator, is that
going to let me loop--
SURMA: Yeah-- you would
iterate them in order
and you will not be able
to go to the second one
until the first one had resolved
and has been processed by you.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Excellent, OK.
So that's Async iterator.
What about Async generator?
I guess it means it's going
to be to helper function.
SURMA: It's the helper function.
But in this, you
can yield promises.
And it's going to be
super helpful-- exactly
like you said-- for fetches
or in a service worker, when
you want to fetch your
header, your main content
in the footer.
And you want these
to be in order,
because if your footer
comes before the header
or the content, that
wouldn't make sense.
So you kind of want to yield
those bits and bobs in order
and then just stitch them
together, or just forward
them to the main thread
so the page can build up.
So I think it's going to be
really, really useful once we
have it in our
JavaScript environment,
and just be able to work
with asynchronous values--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Like streams?
[GASP]
SURMA: Yes.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Brilliant, sold.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The fetch observer.
SURMA: The fetch
observer doesn't
have to do with actual fetch.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes, it does.
SURMA: Does it observe fetches?
SURMA: How?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Uh, magic.
[LAUGHING]